about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: about.html
---

👋 Hi there! Thanks for stopping by ❤️!

I'm Ritik Kumar, 2021 Computer Science & Engineering graduate🎓 from Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, interested
in Computer networks. I am a Software Engineer at `Microsoft India` in the Azure Networking team. I have good
experience working as a Backend Developer👨‍💻.

I was `Google Summer of Code` Student Developer 2019 for [NDN](https://named-data.net/project/) `(Named Data Network)`
and worked on `NpChat`, a peer to peer decentralised media sharing application based on NDN for Android. I had interned
with `Microsoft India`, where I worked on their new `EDGE` `(Anaheim)` browser-based on `Chromium`. Recently, I
interned at [Fampay](https://fampay.in) & [Triomics](https://triomics.in/) as a Backend Engineer. I worked as a research
intern at [SNL](https://snl.cs.ucsb.edu/) `(Systems and Networking Lab)` UCSB. I have also contributed to some
open-sourced projects. In the past, I have also developed and maintained a few widely used apps for the IIT Roorkee
campus.

I mostly build and analyse cool stuff, usually around Linux🐧 and networking or fixing issues in web servers. My other
hobbies include reading [books]({{site.books_domain}})📚, finance📈 and consuming stuff about modern history &
geopolitics, particularly around WW II. I also like listening to all kinds of music.

If you found anything around interesting, feel free to use any of the channels below to connect with me!🙂

<div align="center">
<p>
<a href="mailto:{{ site.author.email }}"><i class="fa fa-envelope-o fa-fw" aria-hidden="true" style="font-size:40px;color:#2980b9"></i></a>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
<a href="https://github.com/{{ site.author.github_username }}"><i class="fa fa-github" aria-hidden="true" style="font-size:40px;color:#2980b9"></i></a>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
<a href="https://x.com/{{ site.author.twitter_username }}"><i class="fa fa-twitter" aria-hidden="true" style="font-size:40px;color:#2980b9"></i></a>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/{{ site.author.linkedin_username }}/"><i class="fa fa-linkedin" aria-hidden="true" style="font-size:40px;color:#2980b9"></i></a>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
<a href="{{ site.author.medium_url }}"><i class="fa fa-medium" aria-hidden="true" style="font-size:40px;color:#2980b9"></i></a>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/@{{ site.author.youtube_handle }}"><i class="fa fa-youtube" aria-hidden="true" style="font-size:40px;color:#2980b9"></i></a>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
<a href="/key.pub"><i class="fa fa-key" aria-hidden="true" style="font-size:40px;color:#2980b9"></i></a>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
</p>
</div>

Commit message:

:zap: Add Uber details, update about section

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: about.html
---

👋 Hi there! Thanks for stopping by ❤️!

I'm **Ritik Kumar**, a **Computer Science & Engineering graduate (IIT Roorkee, 2021)**, currently working as a **Software Engineer at Uber India**. I’m deeply passionate about **computer networks** and **backend engineering**, with hands-on experience building large-scale, high-performance systems.

Previously, I’ve worked as a **Backend Engineer at [Eightfold AI](https://eightfold.ai/)** on the data platform team, and as an **SDE at [Microsoft](https://microsoft.com/)** India in the Azure Networking organization.

I was also a **Google Summer of Code 2019 Developer** with the [NDN Project](https://named-data.net/project/), where I built **NpChat**, a peer-to-peer decentralized media-sharing app for Android based on Named Data Networking.

Over the years, I’ve interned with several leading startups and research groups, including:
- **Microsoft India**, contributing to the new **Edge (Anaheim)** browser built on Chromium
- **[Fampay](https://fampay.in)** — India’s first neobank for teenagers and their families — as a backend engineer
- **[Triomics](https://triomics.com/)** as a backend engineer
- **[SNL, UCSB](https://snl.cs.ucsb.edu/)** — the Systems and Networking Lab — as a research intern

Beyond work, I enjoy tinkering with **Linux 🐧**, debugging **web server internals**, and contributing to **open-source projects**. I’ve also built and maintained several popular apps used across the IIT Roorkee campus.

Outside of tech, I love **reading** ([books]({{site.books_domain}})📚), following **finance and markets 📈**, and diving into **modern history and geopolitics**, especially around World War II. You’ll also find me exploring new genres of **music** 🎶.

If anything here sparks your interest, feel free to connect — I’d love to chat! 🙂

<div align="center">
<p>
<a href="mailto:{{ site.author.email }}"><i class="fa fa-envelope-o fa-fw" aria-hidden="true" style="font-size:40px;color:#2980b9"></i></a>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
<a href="https://github.com/{{ site.author.github_username }}"><i class="fa fa-github" aria-hidden="true" style="font-size:40px;color:#2980b9"></i></a>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
<a href="https://x.com/{{ site.author.twitter_username }}"><i class="fa fa-twitter" aria-hidden="true" style="font-size:40px;color:#2980b9"></i></a>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/{{ site.author.linkedin_username }}/"><i class="fa fa-linkedin" aria-hidden="true" style="font-size:40px;color:#2980b9"></i></a>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
<a href="{{ site.author.medium_url }}"><i class="fa fa-medium" aria-hidden="true" style="font-size:40px;color:#2980b9"></i></a>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/@{{ site.author.youtube_handle }}"><i class="fa fa-youtube" aria-hidden="true" style="font-size:40px;color:#2980b9"></i></a>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
<a href="/key.pub"><i class="fa fa-key" aria-hidden="true" style="font-size:40px;color:#2980b9"></i></a>
&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
</p>
</div>
